Welcome back to the show. Here at Full Frontal we have a long
tradition going all the way back to our
first season where I sit down and
interview the president of the United
States before he or she leaves office
this week it was President Obama's turn
thank you so much for joining us for our
annual Halloween presidential interview
(OBAMA) it is so exciting!
(SAM) this here I'm going as a witch
(OBAMA)  that's not a witch costume
(SAM) I'm a woman on television and I'm over 40, so
I'm already in costume
(SAM) where's yours?
(OBAMA) I'm dressed up as what
happens when young people vote
Someone gets really old really fast?
(OBAMA) that's not it.
(SAM) so is that like white
spray paint or fun Halloween cobwebs up there?
Sam I'm still president for
about three months
Careful.
look Sam, the reason I'm here is not just
to celebrate Halloween with you but it
is actually because i want to let
first-time voters know why it is so
important to vote. This is probably the
most important election of our lifetimes
the choices could not be clearer and if
we want to build on progress, on issues
like climate change and gender equality
and making sure that everybody has
healthcare and making sure that young
people have a good education and can
afford College
they've got to make sure that their
voices are heard.
(SAM) So you are a father of a
college student, sitting down with a 47
year old mother of three
if this was your best idea to get young
people to vote, what was your worst idea?
Have you thought about going on antiques roadshow?
I haven't, but it turns out that young people actually are more
interested and engaged than I think we
give them credit for. Sometimes they
get cynical... hard to understand why
after watching this campaign. But Malia,
my oldest, she actually voted for the
first time. The the pride that she took, I
think in casting her ballot, is a pride
that I think a lot of young people feel
but you got to talk to 'em about the
things that they care about.
Talk to me as though I'm a millennial voter and
get me interested in voting
Okay because it's like,
I don't even know if there is like any
point in voting and like
they're both so totally flawed, like
don't you even think it's time to like
upend the whole system and just like
break everything
first of all if you're worried about
whether you can afford to go to college
or not then Hillary Clinton's got a very
specific plan and Donald Trump doesn't. If you
care about climate change
that's not a small thing. so young people
have a bigger stake in this election
than anybody, I would hope that you'd be
willing to take about the same amount of
time that you spend just looking through
cat videos on your phone to make sure
that the democracy's working.
Sorry, I was just snapchatting myself as a bottlenose dolphin
If and when Hillary is president,
what do you think will be the female
equivalent of "you weren't born in this country"?
That's an interesting question
thank you, I have a lot of those
I think the equivalent will be she's tired, she's
moody, she's being emotional
it's just something about he. There's
something about her. When men are
ambitious, it's just taken for granted, well
of course they should be ambitious. When women
are ambitious, why? that theme, I think will
continue throughout her presidency and
it's contributed to this notion that
somehow she is hiding something
what a nasty woman
After you leave office
have you thought of just whispering in
Donald Trump's ear, you were right, I wasn't born here
just to like, mess with him
I think it's fair to say that, uh, I
will be organizing my post-presidency
where I'm not close enough to him to
whisper in his ear
that is very fair.
What would you like your legacy to be? other than not having
everything be overturned the day after inauguration.
inauguration I feel confident that we
can build on the progress we've made
around climate change, clean energy,
healthcare, making the economy work
better for everybody -- all that feels good
to me but the thing that I care most
about is making sure that there's a
generation of young people who are
following me and Michelle and if we can look
back 20 years from now and say to
ourselves, wow there are a whole bunch of people who
were inspired by what we did and are
doing it even better, then we'll feel pretty good
probably also the first American president
to be interviewed by Samantha Bee. I''ll
put you down for that.
(OBAMA) That'll be big.
(SAM) That's huge
(OBAMA) that's gonna have a
prominent place in our library.
Seeing as how this is our halloween interview, can
you tell us a spooky story about what
happens if people don't vote?
Donald Trump could be president
ok that was very scary. I'm gonna make it even scarier for you
Supreme Court Justice Corey Lewandowski
Speaker of the house Louie Gohmert
that was pretty scary. I'm not sure I'm
going to sleep well tonight
None of us are.
can I lean and give you a big fist bump?
Absolutely.
Booyah. Pretty exciting.
that was very exciting
We'll be right back